If you don’t fancy signing up for a long-term contract, there are multiple mobile data packages available in South Africa on a month-to-month basis. While fibre is the ideal option for Internet users with big data requirements, it’s not readily available to most South African households yet. Mobile broadband is available more widely but is also more expensive. The data speeds on mobile networks can also vary greatly based on your location and the time of day. The most attractive mobile data prices are often offered on long-term contracts, but this locks you into a single provider for 12 to 36 months. Cancelling your contract before its terms expire will incur a penalty. Opting for prepaid gives you the freedom to jump between providers without any penalty fees, but prepaid data packages are typically more expensive compared to contracts. Month-to-month products strike a balance between both prepaid and longer-term contract packages. Although payments recur on a monthly basis, like on a contract, you can cancel your package at any time without incurring penalty fees. This is because payments are made upfront instead of on a postpaid basis, so there is no financial risk to mobile network operators of delinquency from the subscriber. The table below shows the capped month-to-month LTE packages available on MTN and Telkom’s networks. If you don’t want to concern yourself with monitoring your data usage, there are also uncapped mobile data packages on month-to-month deals. Rain’s uncapped 4G and 5G deals are the cheapest of their kind in the country, starting at just R250 for an Unlimited Off-Peak 4G package. For those requiring greater speed, it also offers two 5G packages, both of which are currently available at discounted prices. Supersonic also provides an uncapped fixed LTE service at R999 per month. The table below shows all the uncapped mobile data packages available on a month-to-month basis. There are still many more month-to-month options than prepaid when it comes to mobile data products with big data allocations. However, Cell C has also started to offer attractive prices with large amounts of data with its Home Connecta Flexi packages. Starting at a once-off price of R59, subscribers can get a 10GB bundle with 5GB of anytime data and 5GB night-time data. Cell C charges the same price for a 50GB + 50GB package as Axxess and Afrihost do on a 30GB + 30GB plan. For heavier data users, the Home Connecta Flexi packages top out at a 1TB anytime bundle for R899 per month.