Bidvest McCarthy Nissan brings you 2 class-defining machines in the brand new Nissan Navara and Nissan Magnite. These 2 cars cater to different audiences but both carry the Nissan tried, tested, and mastered engineering in their DNA. The new Navara is the next step in the Navara range straight from the hands of our very best in South Africa. The Nissan Magnite is the new kid on the block! It sets its standards and exceeds any that came before. With both these beasts bringing something different to the table and both setting new standards in their respective class, the question is, WHAT’S YOUR TYPE? The Navara or the Magnite?

Navara, now available from your nearest Bidvest McCarthy Nissan. The new Navara is jam-packed with intelligent safety technology features and offers an improved ride with a host of SUV-like comfort features. All models come standard with NissanConnect with Android Auto and Apple CarPlay. Safety features include features like dual airbags, ABS, EBD, and brake assist right from entry grades. Nissan Intelligent Mobility features include, amongst others, The new design has an interlocking frame grill, squared C-shape LED projector headlamps, and signature tail lamps. The steering is lighter, there is less noise, vibration, and harshness, and the dual coil suspension offers improved posture and handling. Best-in-class ownership support programmes include an improved service plan of 6 years/90 000km and a 6 year/150 000km warranty. If that doesn’t suit your needs, there are also optional value-added products: There’s so much that’s lekker about the legendary new Navara, and with Bidvest McCarthy Nissan prices, it’s a breeze to stay loyal to local. While the Navara brings all these impressive features and more, it’s not the only attention-grabbing Nissan out for your attention, the Nissan Magnite is just as impressive and just as brilliant in its class. By now you will have seen the new Nissan Magnite – on street pole ads, billboards, in your dreams. Now, it’s time to see it in your garage. The new Nissan Magnite delivers 9+ best-in-class and First Segment features. Each variant has been designed to maximize value to the discerning Cross-Over/SUV customers. Key standard features include, amongst others, wireless connectivity in the form of Android Auto and Apple CarPlay cruise control, auto aircon, rear camera, 7″ digital cluster, 16″ machined alloy wheels, rear parking sensor, and hill start assist. The Acenta Plus models see the addition of intelligent around view, a tyre pressure

The Magnite colour range caters to every kind of spirit. It comes in four dual tone and two monotone exterior colours, Pearl white and Onyx black, Blade silver, Flare garnet red and Onyx black, Blade silver and onyx black, Storm white, Vivid blue, and storm white. Interior colours are either light grey or black. Make your dreams a reality at your nearest Bidvest McCarthy Nissan today. Click here to find out more about Bidvest McCarthy Nissan.