Many organisations are challenged to understand what is affected by the imminent enforcement of POPIA compliance, what they can do to become compliant, and how they can ensure ongoing compliance with both POPIA and GDPR. But getting real value out of POPIA and GDPR projects means you have to consider the full spectrum of governance, cybersecurity, licensing models and procurement technologies that support the organisation’s digital transformation journey. Broadly speaking, there’s a proven three-step process to successfully complying with POPIA and GDPR that we’ve honed across a wide customer base, using skilled resources, with comprehensive certifications, applying global best practice methodology. You must be able to intelligently and flexibly classify data so you can identify the “crown jewels”. The system must be user friendly and provide a means to balance protection and productivity. You want to reduce the dependency and effort on the end user through native application capabilities, which also eliminates managing and deploying add-ins. You want a single pane of glass for the information protection stack. Finally, any solution must integrate with third-party applications and services to achieve comprehensive data protection. These three elements can put a huge strain on internal IT and related business teams. As far as POPIA and GDPR are concerned, internal teams are not necessarily geared to be able to consider business and IT alignment, audit licenses, assess security posture, how to apply best practice and experience to optimally configure products, design architectures in detail, educate users and pilot change management, then plan the projects with comprehensive rollout and deployment roadmaps. The impacts of POPIA and GDPR compliance initiatives extend into numerous business, partner, and customer facing systems, which is why best practice and proven methodologies are so important. The Microsoft Operations Framework’s (MOF) encapsulates global best practice and the lessons gained from adoptions at several hundred organisations worldwide. The Deliver Phase of MOF streamlines the rollout via stages from assessment to planning, building, stabilising, and deploying within live business environments. One of the major concerns is that organisations need to know their partner can support their comprehensive needs. We are a Microsoft Gold Partner and we support the MOF with numerous award-winning Microsoft Gold and Platinum certifications and competencies. In fact, we’ve recently won more than 10 specifically related awards from Microsoft for being experts across a variety of platforms and systems, from our Azure business and technical acumen, through Office 365 environments, deep cybersecurity delivery capabilities in Sentinel-based services, to Exchange and EM&S. After deployment, we move to the Stabilize phase, which provides a managed service, delivering 24-7 support for POPIA requirements and others across the network through the collective effort of our more than 1 800 employees from offices across the country. From SME to large enterprise, data sensitivity remains the same. Delivering a certified best practice approach to data classification, governance, and protection substantially improve any POPIA and GDPR compliance initiative. The legislative requirements as well as the penalties are the same for all organisations. That’s why we use the same proven approach and tools for all size and type of organisation. There are, however, different licensing programmes to suit various size of organisation, from small business to large, government and non-profit. Contact Ryan if you want more specific information on how you can initiate POPIA and GDPR compliance in your organisation. Contact Number: 021 525 7000 Email Address: ryanr@firsttechnology.co.za