Take on whatever life has in store with Microsoft 365. With premium apps that make your life more creative, organized and secure, Microsoft 365 brings out your best and lets you create amazing content in Word, Excel, and PowerPoint in less time than ever before – while also giving you access to exclusive creative content that makes it easy to stay focused on what matters the most. Available at Incredible Connection, Microsoft 365 is an essential all-in-one subscription for personal, family or business use. You can choose to pay for your subscription on a monthly or yearly basis, and the Microsoft 365 Family plan lets you share your subscription with your family for up to 6 people, and use your apps on multiple PCs, tablets, and phones. With a subscription, you’ll always have the latest features, fixes, and security updates which makes working from anywhere so easy. Work. School. Family. Home. Fitting the puzzle pieces of your life together can be a big job. Microsoft Outlook helps you handle the details so you can focus on what matters most. From first days of school to new jobs, to steps down the aisle, to nights out with friends and beyond – your photos are precious. With up to 1TB storage, all your important work and personal files are backed up while advanced security gives your sensitive data added protection. For your family, with Microsoft 365 Family each person gets their own 1 TB of cloud storage, access to premium Office apps and advanced security across emails and files. Whether it’s a school assignment, newsletter, family budget, or virtual get-together, Microsoft 365 can help you collaborate and work more efficiently with fewer frustrations. Stay a step ahead with Microsoft 365 and create more time for the things that matter the most. As a subscriber, you have access to smart assistance features that’ll help you organize your time while you power through the day. Stay on top of work meetings, school assignments and family time as you seamlessly work with others to complete projects faster and stay connected. Let Outlook help you handle the details so you can focus on the big picture. Looking for more? Get 3 more months of Microsoft 365 when you purchase any qualifying product to take your work, study or business to the next level. Did you know that one of the many benefits of purchasing your Tech from Incredible Connection is you can have your device fully set up and walk-out-working by one of our Tech Xperts? You also get our Incredible 3-year extended warranty which consists of Online Live Chat, Telephone Technical Support and easy online registration Another great thing about Incredible Connection is that we also offers nationwide delivery, ensuring your Tech will be at your doorstep in no time! With any of our quick and convenient payment options – from EFT Pro, Mobicred, PayU and the option to pay on credit – you too can experience Office your way. With our exciting Revolving Credit offer you can tech now and pay later. A revolving credit account makes it possible for you to purchase Microsoft 365 on simple credit terms and repay your account monthly. With this 12-month revolving credit facility you can use your card at any Incredible Connection store nationwide. Microsoft 365 is available to download online, or you can purchase your new or renewal subscription in-store. T’s & C Apply.