The State of Ransomware in Healthcare 2021 report provides deep insight into the prevalence and impact of ransomware in the healthcare sector. The report also compares the experiences of healthcare with other industries and reveals the future expectations and readiness of healthcare organisations in the face of these attacks. The State of Ransomware in Healthcare 2021 survey was conducted by Vanson Bourne, an independent specialist in market research, in January and February 2021. The survey interviewed 5,400 IT decision makers in 30 countries, including 328 respondents from healthcare that came from all geographic regions surveyed: the Americas, Europe, the Middle East, Africa, and Asia Pacific. All respondents were from organisations with between 100 and 5,000 employees. The report reveals that just over a third of healthcare organisations (34%) were hit by ransomware last year, which is actually slightly below the global cross-sector average of 37%. Among the healthcare organisations that were hit by ransomware, 65% said their data was encrypted – compared with the cross-sector average of 54%. Globally 39% of organisations were able to stop the attack before the data was encrypted, dropping to just 28% in healthcare. This reduced ability to stop an attack may be a reflection of the financial and resourcing challenges that the healthcare sector faces, partly due to a reluctance to divert funds to cybersecurity that could be used for frontline patient care. Healthcare is more likely to pay the ransom and less likely to backup. Among the healthcare organisations whose data was encrypted, 34% paid the ransom compared with a cross-sector average of 32%. This may be because healthcare was less able to restore data from backups than almost all other sectors: on average 57% of organisations used backups to get their data back – this came down to only 44% in healthcare, the second lowest across all sectors. “What attackers omit when issuing ransom demands is that even if you pay, your chances of getting all your data back are slim. 25 healthcare respondents who paid the ransom to get their data back got back, on average, just 69% of their data, leaving a considerable proportion of their data inaccessible,” says Ross Anderson, Sophos Product Development Manager at Duxbury Networking. While advanced and automated technologies are essential elements of an effective anti-ransomware defence, stopping hands-on attackers also requires human monitoring and intervention by skilled professionals. “Whether in-house staff or outsourced pros, human experts are uniquely able to identify some of the telltale signs that ransomware attackers have you in their sights. We strongly recommend all organisations build up their human expertise in the face of the ongoing ransomware threat,” says Anderson. In light of these findings, Sophos experts recommend the following best practices: For more information contact Duxbury Networking, +27 (0) 11 351 9800, info@duxnet.co.za, www.duxbury.co.za