South Africa’s top asset managers have joined forces against the complex shareholding structure and lack of management alignment at Naspers and Prosus. The Naspers executive team, led by chief executive Bob van Dijk, has been under scrutiny by market participants for several years. The discount in its share price to its investment in Chinese tech titan Tencent has widened following several unsuccessful corporate actions. In the email below, addressed to Koos Bekker and Hendrik Du Toit – Naspers non-executive director and chief executive of NinetyOne – the investors outline their concerns. Many of the problems, the asset managers say, have only got worse since Van Dijk’s appointment as Naspers CEO. To get more insight into the matter, Biznews founder Alec Hogg talked to four Naspers and Prosus investors: The discussion is embedded below.  Here is the full email from the asset managers to Koos Bekker and Hendrik Du Toit. We, the undersigned co-signatories, are a group of 36 asset managers and investors, who collectively represent total assets under our management of more than R3.6trn. The investor grouping included here represents clients who are Prosus (PRX) shareholders; Naspers (NPN) shareholders; shareholders in both entities, and potential shareholders. We have noted the PRX voluntary share exchange offer for NPN shares, as initially announced on 12 May 2021 in a joint announcement by PRX and NPN. We, as a collective, find several aspects of the proposed transaction problematic. We are of the view that it introduces elements which serve to increase complexity in the overall company structures, thereby reducing the likelihood of further value unlock, whether immediate or longer-term. Given that many of us have already expressed these in-principle reservations to the executive management team but have been unable to obtain clear understanding for how these views are being heard, we now wish to escalate our commonly held concerns through this collaborative letter of engagement directly with the non-executive directors of NPN and PRX. Our foundational reservations are governance-related, namely: In addition to these core matters, we also point out concerns over the more commercially based aspects of the proposed transaction, including the exchange ratio in respect of the NPN share offer and the future potential tax liabilities. We therefore wish to place on record the following points through this escalated collaborative engagement: We believe, as investors who all exercise stewardship responsibilities in respect of our clients’/members’ capital, that it is incumbent on us to make every effort to constructively place common concerns on record with the front-line custodians of those investments. Despite the individual efforts of select investors in this group to address several concerns with the executive management team, we are now collectively approaching the non-executive directors of the respective Boards directly. While this collective engagement provides the investor grouping with a platform to express important, commonly shared concerns using a collective voice, each asset manager/investor reserves the option to engage with you separately on their reservations in respect of the voluntary share exchange offer and in general. Investors within this grouping would be willing to constructively and humbly put forward alternative solutions that could be considered both in terms of the current proposed transaction and/or in terms of the broader corporate structures. Naspers and Prosus N.V. (“Prosus”) thank shareholders for constructive engagements since they announced a proposed voluntary share exchange offer by Prosus to Naspers shareholders. We are aligned with shareholders in our joint desire to maximise the value of the group. We plan to achieve this by building useful consumer internet businesses with global reach over the long term. We remain committed, and management is incentivised, to continue to take action to address the discount to NAV. In the interest of ongoing transparency, we want to clarify our perspective on two topics that have been raised in our engagements with shareholders: We agree that we must avoid friction due to complexity. After extensive work, a structure was found that makes the end state of the transaction straightforward, through the cross-holding arrangement, with dividend flows clear and certain. We encourage investors to review this arrangement. We fully concur that management and shareholder interests must be aligned. All of management PSU and share option incentives today are in Naspers. These components represent the vast majority of their compensation. As we move forward it is necessary to include Prosus options and PSUs to reflect the interests of all shareholders. In our integrated annual report (to follow in a few weeks) you will see that the intention for future allocation of long term incentives for the executive directors is to align them with Naspers and Prosus shareholders’ free float interests as a reference (currently 72,5% Naspers, 27,5% Prosus). Nonetheless, the Naspers component of the incentive will continue to be the most significant component of management compensation for many years to come. Our executive directors commit that they will not exercise their vested Naspers share options, which is where they have most of their wealth tied up, prior to the exchange offer. The board remains committed, and management is incentivised, to continue to take action to address the discount to NAV in the future and the proposed transaction maintains our flexibility to do so. We believe that the proposed transaction is in the best interests of Naspers and Prosus shareholders: Prosus shareholders are asked to vote on the transaction at the EGM on July 9 2021. We intend to provide further updates over time.