Packed with power and performance designed for you, a Modern device is built for the future! From powerful and flexible performance to effortless mobility and experiences, a Modern device gives you an uncompromising performance, industry-leading design and the best-in-class computing experience for all your business and creative needs. As the leader in Tech and the Home of Modern Smart Computing, Incredible Connection offers a 3-year extended warranty which consists of Online Live Chat, Telephone Technical Support and easy online registration. You can also get help with setting up your notebook thanks to our Walk Out Working service which ensures your device is completely set up and ready to use right away. Worried about the status of your notebook? Come in store for a free health check! We offer nationwide delivery ensuring your notebook will be at your doorstep on time. It’s all systems go with a Modern device driven by 11th Gen Intel Core processors. These processors are no lightweights when it comes to performance. Harnessing the power of the latest connectivity innovations with Wi-Fi 6, you can connect fast with best-in-class Wi-Fi, get nearly 3x faster Wi-Fi speeds and support more users. Whether you are video streaming, gaming or dealing with increasingly larger file sizes, your higher bandwidth needs will be catered for thanks to the widest range of Wi-Fi 6 (Gig+) enabled routers available at Incredible Connection. Radically reconfigured, the new CPU, GPU, AI, and connectivity components of 11th Gen Intel Core processors perform in an unprecedented harmony, redefining how Modern device performance is measured. Powered by Windows 10, a Modern device lets you do great things. From comprehensive security that includes Windows Hello, fingerprint readers and facial recognition, to productivity and connectivity that helps you get tasks done seamlessly, as well as the best-in-class gaming that keeps you playing for longer – these powerful and sleek devices put you in a whole new class of innovation. From HP Envy devices to the magnificent ASUS Zenbook Duo 14, the Modern experience is nothing like you’ve seen before. Don’t forget to add Microsoft 365 with your qualifying purchase to get an extra 3 months to stay on top of your tasks! Whether you need to power your creativity, unlock your vision or stay connected, we’ve made it possible to experience Modern devices the Incredible way. With any of our quick and convenient payment options – from EFT Pro, Mobicred, PayU and the option to pay on credit – you too can reach your true potential. With our exciting Revolving Credit offer you can Tech now and pay later, as this option makes it possible for you to purchase your Modern device on simple credit terms and repay your account monthly. With this 12-month revolving credit facility you can use your card at any Incredible Connection store nationwide. You can also get the latest Modern devices on contract with MTN, Telkom and Vodacom deals. Incredible Connection is proud to be one of SA’s retailers to offer deals across all three major network carriers. Tech on contract is available on all data products in-store only. Visit your nearest Incredible Connection store to sign up in-store for your Incredible Tech on contract and get your Modern experience underway!