Minister for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has published the government gazette which details South Africa’s revised COVID-19 alert level 1 lockdown restrictions. The new restrictions – which were announced by President Cyril Ramaphosa on Tuesday night – are aimed at curbing the spread of COVID-19 at a time when many South Africans will be travelling, visiting family, or attending large gatherings during the Easter period. “Over the last few days we have sought the advice of experts and consulted with representatives of provincial and local government on what measures should be put in place over the coming long weekend to prevent a new outbreak of infections.” “The reality is that greater movement of people, interprovincial travel, greater use of public transit, and gatherings present a great risk of an increase in infections,” Ramaphosa said. With the exception of a ban on the sale of alcohol for off-site consumption from Friday 2 April until Monday 5 April, most of the adjusted alert level 1 restrictions announced by Ramaphosa at the end of February will be kept in place. Alcohol can still be sold for on-site consumption at restaurants, bars, and shebeens, while the curfew will remain from midnight to 4:00am. Public recreational spaces such as beaches, parks, and dams can also remain open. One major change is an increase in the maximum number of persons allowed at religious and other gatherings. Previously, social, cultural, and religious gatherings were limited to 100 persons for indoor gatherings, and 250 persons for outdoor gatherings. To accommodate Easter festivities and religious gatherings in particular, this has been bumped up to 250 persons for indoor venues, and 500 persons for outdoor venues. Ramaphosa said that the measures on the size of gatherings will be reviewed within 15 days based on an assessment on the state of the pandemic and the extent of compliance with health protocols. One notable exception to the increase in gatherings is funerals, which will continue to be limited to 100 people at indoor venues and 250 at outdoor locations. These new measures will be in effect from today, 31 March 2021. The table below summarises what you are allowed and not allowed to do under the new COVID-19 alert level 1 rules.