Bitcoin continues to be the top choice for those interested in buying and selling cryptocurrencies. For many, however, the process of purchasing bitcoin may be overwhelming. Enter Yellow Card. Yellow Card is designed to make bitcoin transactions simple, fast, and secure. Whether you want to use bitcoin to trade or simply wish to invest, Yellow Card has you covered. The company was founded in June 2019 after Chris Maurice and Justin Poiroux realised that many Africans were paying excessive fees to transfer money to their loved ones. “Our goal is to be synonymous with cryptocurrencies in Africa,” said Maurice. “We have the best rates and liquidity on the continent, and we want to make sure that everyone in Africa has access to this technology.” Yellow Card is currently available in South Africa as well as in eight other countries – Nigeria, Botswana, Zambia, Kenya, Cameroon, Ghana, Uganda, and Tanzania – and you can choose from 14 different languages on their site – 10 of which are African languages. Millions of US dollars are traded using the platform every month, making it one of the largest crypto exchanges on the continent. <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span> To sign up, simply download the Yellow Card app and create an account. From here, you can deposit money via instant bank transfer into your Yellow Card wallet. Once the money reflects in your wallet, you can buy bitcoin. Yellow Card buys and sells bitcoin directly from and to you, meaning there are no middlemen or trading fees. Additionally, you can transfer bitcoin you own on Yellow Card to other Yellow Card users by using their phone number or email address – meaning you do not need to pay a blockchain fee. There are also additional benefits available if you become a GDP program member. There are three levels – Gold, Platinum, and Diamond – which offer additional benefits to users who make large transactions on a regular basis. Gold members, for example, must trade a minimum of $40,000 per month. Yellow Card’s South African team consists of seven members, all of whom are committed to providing elite customer service. “Yesterday I had a phone call from Yellow Card just checking in to see how I experienced my sign-up process with Yellow Card… the guy who phoned me was super professional, friendly and well spoken,” said one user. “Haven’t had that experience from a call centre in a very long time.” If you would like to begin your bitcoin journey while receiving this level of service, download Yellow Card today. Yellow Card has created a voucher code especially for MyBroadband readers which they can redeem upon registering for the service. Simply enter the referral code MYBDBD when you sign up to the platform to get R50 added to your account. This article was published in partnership with Yellow Card.