Unlocking the next-level computing has never been easier. Dell’s full range of notebooks, available from Incredible Connection, doesn’t only push the design envelope while remaining stylish and agile but also delivers exceptional performance to meet all your computing needs. Whether you’re a professional looking to jumpstart your career, a student working towards top results or a creative looking for ways to bring your ground-breaking ideas to life, a Dell notebook lets you master it all and accomplish more. Featuring the widest range of Dell notebooks, one of the many benefits of purchasing your notebook from Incredible Connection include our Incredible 3-year extended warranty which consists of Online Live Chat, Telephone Technical Support and easy online registration. You can also get help with setting up your notebook, thanks to our Walk Out Working service which ensures your Tech is completely set up and ready to use right away. Worried about the status of your device? Come in store for a free health check! We offer nationwide delivery for online orders, ensuring your notebook will be at your doorstep in no time! Need it faster? Try out our Click and Collect service. Small. Light. Powerful! Dell XPS notebooks pack a powerful punch. With perfection truly in your reach, this range ticks the Modern device checklist for all professionals. XPS notebooks are designed with precision engineered details that offer you the power, performance, style and mobility that the world demands. Engineered with your productivity in mind these notebooks help you redefine sophistication. Packed with adrenaline inside and engineered with NVIDIA® GeForce® graphics, Dell G Series gaming notebooks let you game better and calibrate your controls for a sleek gaming experience light-years beyond your imagination. These notebooks are designed for the gamer in you and give you a performance boost during intense gaming sessions. Stunning views come alive in a compact design with the Inspiron range. These notebooks stop at nothing and let you accomplish anything. This light and powerful 2-in-1 range is a must-have for first-time buyers. With seamless power, performance, and entertainment and a wealth of features, the Inspiron range meets all your everyday needs and looks good while doing it. Priced from R12999, Incredible Connection’s premium Dell range is ideal for everyday use while the latest and greatest in 11th Gen Intel® Core™ notebooks are masterfully designed to push every boundary. Whether you need to work, study or create there’s an XPS, Inspiron or G-Series notebook suited for your needs. With any of our quick and convenient payment options – from EFT Pro, Mobicred, PayU, and the option to pay on credit, you too can experience the Dell factor. With simple credit terms, tech now and pay later with an affordable 12-month Revolving Credit facility that lets you get your favourite Dell notebook or get your notebook with our Incredible Tech on contract deals! Nothing says Modern more than Dell. Dell’s premium notebooks ensure that there is a Modern device suited for everyone. For ultimate durability and performance visit the Home of Modern Smart Computing and see how we do Dell the Incredible way!