If you are looking for attractive and durable flooring, interlocking rubber tiles are a great option. This flooring is made of Polyvinyl Chloride, better known as PVC, which is moulded at high temperatures. PVC tiles have a multi-layer structure and each layer fulfils its own functional purpose, with the protective layer increasing the wear resistance of the coating and making maintenance easier. They are referred to as interlocking because these tiles have a self-locking mechanism that enables them to stick together into a rubber mat form factor. These tiles offer tremendous benefits over alternative flooring products. Each PVC tile is large, usually measuring 500mm x 500mm, and they come in a variety of colours to add style to wherever they are being used. They are also 2-5mm thick, and their resistance to wear depends in part on the thickness of their coating. These tiles offer impressive protection against a variety of external influences, including: Another major benefit of PVC floor tiling is their easy maintainability, as you do not need to disassemble the entire flooring if one floor tile has an issue. Instead, you simply need to remove the tile in question and replace it. This also makes these tiles easy to transport – it is simple to pack one or multiple PVC tiles up, transport them, and install them somewhere else. The installation process does not require any glue or grout, nor do you need professional skills. In fact, many DIY fans prefer these rubber floor tiles precisely because they are simple to install and highly robust. PVC tiles are perfect for all types rooms and areas that are hard-wearing, including: If you are interested in purchasing and installing rubber tiles, PVC Floor Tile can help. Their interlocking rubber flooring is of a high quality and delivers a seamless finish that is resilient and attractive. The designs are completely South African, eco-friendly, and cost less than alternatives that are imported into the country. Contact PVC Floor Tile to learn more.