The Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE), Africa’s largest and most liquid stock exchange, has entered into a connectivity agreement with China Telecom, enabling the JSE to connect to China Investment Information Services (CIIS). CIIS is the JSE’s local market data distribution partner in Mainland China and is the wholly owned subsidiary of Shanghai Stock Exchange’s Information and Network Co. Ltd (SSE InfoNet Ltd.). The JSE relies on China Telecom to provide fully redundant connectivity between Johannesburg and China, allowing the real-time delivery of market data. This collaboration supports the JSE’s strategy to expose Asian investors to the breadth and depth of South African market data and to consequently enable related investment opportunities. The market data that the JSE will offer via CIIS to Mainland China’s distributors will enable the investment community in China to access real-time data for JSE-listed equities and FTSE/JSE indices, with a plan to include additional asset classes and data feeds over time. Mark Randall, Information Services Director at the JSE says “We are excited to work with China Telecom to enable the connectivity for the launch of JSE market data in Mainland China and this is an exciting first step in our Asian growth journey. Investors with an interest in South Africa may now get direct access to JSE market data as a precursor to any trading activity. This move supports our plans to see trading activity that originates from a broader global base,” The JSE selected China Telecom as a provider as they have an extensive connectivity network in Asia and in particular, as a conduit to Mainland China. China Telecom offers a high quality, reliable connectivity service which is extremely secure and offers minimal latency when delivering data across continents. Mr. Dayong Zhang, CTO of China Telecom Africa & Middle East Ltd, says “China Telecom has been setting the low latency OTN network between Asia and South Africa. We focus on customer-oriented, deepening “cloudification and digital transformation” strategy, offers customized solutions based on rich products and services, such as Financial transaction acceleration, Hybrid Cloud, Data center, Cyber Security protection, dedicate to co-build Smart Africa and Digital Africa. We are proud to provide the best connectivity services in the industry to serving JSE to extend their market to China. We believe this collaboration will continue to showcase that the cutting-edge IT technology combined with financial power would bring enormous dynamic force to both markets, and beyond, to other economies.” The Johannesburg Stock Exchange (JSE) has a well-established history operating as a market place for trading financial products. It is a pioneering, globally connected exchange group that enables inclusive economic growth through trusted, world class, socially responsible products, and services for the investor of the future. It offers secure and efficient primary and secondary capital markets across a diverse range of securities, spanning equities, derivatives, and debt markets. It prides itself as being the market of choice for local and international investors looking to gain exposure to leading capital markets on the African continent. The JSE is currently ranked in the Top 20 largest stock exchanges in the world by market capitalisation, and is the largest stock exchange in Africa, having been in operation for 130 years. As a leading global exchange, the JSE co-creates, unlocks value & makes real connections happen. China Telecom Corporation Limited (“China Telecom”), one of the world’s largest providers of integrated telecommunication services. China Telecom established China Telecom Global Limited (“CTG”) in 2012. Leveraging its vast network resources of 47 submarine cables with 74T in intercontinental capacity and 217 PoPs around the world. China Telecom Africa & Middle East Limited (CTMEA), as part of CTG, focusing on customer-oriented, deepening “cloudification and digital transformation” strategy. CTMEA, headquartered in Mauritius, set subsidiaries in UAE, Kenya, South Africa and representative office in Egypt, expand its footprint in MEA regions as always. For international carriers, MNC, and Chinese enterprises, CTMEA delivers integrated communications solutions, including internet direct access, internet transit, broadband, UC, IDC, Cloud, IoT, ICT services, and service outsourcing. CTMEA provides digital solutions in financial, OTT, construction, energy, parks industries with one-stop services, including smart cities, big data, IoT, AI etc. Enabling customers to enhance global footprints and maintain competitive edges by digitalization.