The home of modern smart computing Incredible Connection brings you the widest range of notebooks for work, study or business. Bringing together a balance of performance, design and experience, Modern Computers are built to give you the best-in-class productivity, security, mobility and speed while introducing new processors and modern connectivity options – the answers to your modern lifestyle needs! Performing at your best has never been easier with a Modern device. From Microsoft’s exciting all-new Surface range to Lenovo’s best-in-class laptops and Dell’s inspiring notebooks, these devices are packed with industry-leading performance. If you’re looking for light-years of speed, all-day battery and expandable storage all packed in beautifully designed notebooks then a Modern notebook is what you need! Performance gets no better than 11th Gen Intel Core processors now available with HP, Dell & Asus notebooks. These processors are not only the best in the world but are what being Modern is all about. Packing new CPUs, graphics engines, and enhanced AI capabilities, these processors deliver boundary-breaking performance that’s not only best for creation, productivity and gaming, but lets you master anything! With better pixels, interactive touch display and beautiful Full HD views, Modern devices are designed to bring seamless computing to life. Imagine being able to work at your best while experiencing everything the latest Tech has to offer. Well that’s what you get with a Modern device! From 2-In-1 convertible notebooks to Windows Hello, Fingerprint readers and facial recognition that enhance your digital security, the Modern experience is like nothing you’ve seen before. Whether you need a notebook to help kick-start your small business, finish a side project or bring your creative vision to life, we have a Modern device to help you achieve it all! With any of our quick and convenient payment options – EFT Pro, Mobicred, PayU, and the option to pay on credit – you too can take your potential to new heights! With simple credit terms, tech now and pay later with an affordable 12-month Revolving Credit facility that lets you get the best Modern Devices. One of the many benefits of purchasing a Modern device from us is our Incredible 3-year extended warranty which includes Online Live Chat, Telephone Technical Support and easy online registration. Our tech specialists don’t only provide you with expert advice on the latest Tech but they can also lend a helping hand with setting up your device thanks to our Walk Out Working service which ensures your notebook is completely set up and ready to use right away. Worried about the status of your device? Come in store for a free health check! Visit Incredible Connection, the home of modern smart computing, and experience what a modern lifestyle really means. This article was published in partnership with Incredible Connection.