RSAWEB has drastically cut all its uncapped Fibre-to-the-Home packages on the Octotel fibre network, one of the largest in South Africa, making them the lowest priced ISP against all major competitors. With your Octotel fibre package, customers may also be in line to receive up to 3 months free and over R75,00 in additional added value. “We are excited to launch our new Octotel prices and promotion as Octotel continue to expand in towns like Knysna and Plett. We understand household budgets are under pressure, hence it is hugely important to us to make fibre more affordable than ever and, with so many of us working from home, we need to ensure we continue to provide a reliable high quality internet service/connection backed up by excellent customer service.” RSAWEB CEO Rudy van Staden said. RSAWEB’s new prices and promotions on Octotel will give customers an annual saving of up to R1,790 on the entry-level 15/15Mbps package and up to R5,205 on the super-fast 1 000/100Mbps package. Listed in the table below is a summary of the package prices, promotion details and savings. *Terms and conditions apply An investigation in to fibre prices on the Octotel network finds that RSAWEB’s prices are the lowest in the market. The table below shows RSAWEB’s incredible prices versus some of their major competitors. In some cases, RSAWEB packages are up to over R500 cheaper, saving the customer almost R6,000 a year on top of all the other savings you get with RSAWEB. Click here to search fibre availability in your area. The savings never stop with RSAWEB! When you order fibre with RSAWEB, you will get a further saving of over R7,500*, this includes: *Terms and conditions apply. Click here to take advantage of one of RSAWEB’s FREE Fibre deals as well as their exciting freebies. When it comes to providing their customers with the best value, incredible customer service and the fastest internet speeds in South Africa – RSAWEB truly are the number 1 ISP! RSAWEB is the country’s top-rated ISP with a 4.5/5-star Google rating and, according to MyBroadband’s recent speed test results, RSAWEB recorded the highest home broadband speeds at 995Mbps. To see if you are eligible for one of RSAWEB’s amazing FREE Fibre deals, simply click on the link below and type in your address. Let’s get you connected! Get the best customer service from SA’s top-rated ISP – view specials here.