If your usage behaviour fits a specific profile and you fall within certain market segments, you can get 30-day prepaid data bundles from MTN for 10% to 50% cheaper than its advertised headline prices. On three prepaid SIMs MyBroadband was able to buy 1GB of monthly prepaid data for R89 – 10% cheaper than MTN’s current headline price of R99. Similarly, the SIMs we tested had access to a 100MB monthly prepaid data bundle for R10, which is 50% cheaper than MTN’s standard price of R20. “The customer value management (CVM) pricing strategy was introduced to offer personalised data products and services based on each customers usage behaviour and segment,” MTN told MyBroadband. MTN said its CVM pricing strategy also includes the following: “In addition, MTN reduced its data pricing at a regional level through the introduction of MyTown Offers which offers regional data pricing depending on the customers town or location,” the company said. MTN added that the prices we saw were as a result of its personalised data bundles. “MTN continuously seeks opportunities to reduce data pricing through the launch of innovative products and services to ensure affordable access to data for all our customers,” MTN stated. “Over the past 24 months MTN has introduced innovative products and pricing strategies that offer more data and value for money to customers.” The following table summarises the reduced 30-day mobile data bundle prices that were available to the three prepaid MTN SIMs we tested: The table below shows how the personalised MTN data prices compare to the 30-day prepaid mobile data prices from Vodacom, Telkom, and Cell C. The cheapest price for a particular bundle size is highlighted in bold. Vodacom recently cut its prepaid data bundle prices and has the cheapest 1GB data bundle, even after MTN’s personalised data price reduction is factored in. Not shown in this comparison are prepaid fixed-LTE plans that are considerably cheaper than bundles designed for mobile use. MyBroadband recently tested Cell C’s new Home Connecta Flexi service in a high-end smartphone and it performed exceptionally well. Cell C also gives prepaid subscribers the option of switching to its “All-in-One” tariff plan which offers much cheaper 600MB, 2GB, and 5GB data packages through its Double Data All-in-One bundles. These “All-in-One” bundles are much cheaper than their counterparts on other networks, and are highlighted in italics in the table below.