Taking the leap towards realising your dreams may seem like a terrifying and challenging task. However, with a little help and the right tools, anything is possible. South Africa’s leader in tech, Incredible Connection invites you on a journey of Tech That Enables Dreams through Modern Smart Computing. Meet Rethabile Ramaphakela, a critically acclaimed showrunner whose creative journey started alongside her brothers in her parent’s garage in Diepkloof, Soweto. A few years later, she’s a writer, director and producer of many local series on the international streaming platform, Netflix. Rethabile’s journey shows us that having the right tools is crucial in bringing your vision to life. That’s why a Modern Device from Incredible Connection is sure to enable your dreams! From first-in-class performance to stylish design and experience to boost your productivity – it’s time to dream it and do it. Starting a business as a creative is often difficult and learning what it means to be a successful creative business is not only about staying true to your authenticity while reaching new heights but is also about using tech to highlight your authenticity. The inspiring story of Rethabile highlights the power of possibility that comes with having a passion, diligence to peruse a dream and the vision that embraces the impossible – becoming a local and international award-winning creator, she shows us that every dream is possible with the right tech! Powered by Windows, as the Home of Modern Smart Computing, Incredible Connection brings you the widest range of notebooks, for work study or business. From starting a small business, starting your first job or completing your studies to achieve your dreams, we have a Modern device to help you get there! With any of our quick and convenient payment options – from EFT Pro, Mobicred, PayU, and the option to pay on credit, you too can take your potential to new heights! With simple credit terms, tech now and pay later with an affordable 12-month Revolving Credit facility that lets you get the best Modern Devices to help enable your 2021 dreams. Incredible stories of how tech enables dreams do not only remind us that it is indeed possible to reach your dreams, but, go an extra mile to show us how it’s done. Follow Rethabile’s Incredible journey of how she took her local company and turned it into a note-worthy production house on Netflix’s international stage and get inspired to follow your dreams. Visit our website to catch a glimpse of how our Tech Enables Dreams. Don’t forget to tell us how Tech could enable your 2021 dreams and you could be one of the selected participants for the #TechDreams initiative. Visit www.incredible.co.za for more information. This article was published in partnership with Incredible Connection.