The Tutuka and Kendal power station managers who were suspended in September 2020 because of “serious issues of apathetic behaviour” are back at Eskom in top positions. The two managers – Kendal GM Yangaphe Ngcashi and Tutuka GM Marcus Nemadodzi – were “summarily suspended” following stage 4 load-shedding in September 2020. Eskom said while its ageing generation fleet was susceptible to unpredictable breakdowns, the situation was exacerbated by “serious issues of apathetic behaviour by some management staff”. The Eskom board come out in strong support of CEO André de Ruyter’s decision to suspend Ngcashi and Nemadodzi pending disciplinary inquiries. The message which Eskom tried to send to management staff was that poor performance will have serious consequences. “Engagements have been held with other power station managers to ensure the previous culture of weak consequence management will no longer be tolerated at Eskom,” it said. Less than five months after the suspensions the two managers have been re-appointed at top positions at Eskom power stations. Nemadodzi has been appointed as GM at the Komati power station while Ngcashi is once again the GM at the Kendal power station. Eskom’s acting group executive for generation informed staff of the following power station general manager (GM) appointments effective 1 February 2021. Netwerk24 reported that the management teams at the Tutuka and Kendal power stations have been strengthened to avoid a repeat of what happened in September last year. This includes the appointment of operations managers, engineering managers, and managers to limit breakdowns and interruptions. Eskom spokesperson Sikonathi Mantshansha confirmed that two power station managers who were suspended in September 2020 at the Kendal and Tutuka power stations have been reinstated to work. Following the suspensions, Eskom conducted investigations into the performance of the power stations under their control, and the necessary disciplinary proceedings were held through the normal internal processes. At the end of the disciplinary process, the following recommendations were implemented: