Minister for Cooperative Governance and Traditional Affairs Nkosazana Dlamini-Zuma has published a government gazette detailing the new restrictions implemented under adjusted level 3 lockdown. These new restrictions are effective from Tuesday 2 February and follow an announcement by President Cyril Ramaphosa on 1 February that certain lockdown rules will be relaxed due to the decline in daily recorded COVID-19 cases in South Africa. “We have recorded our lowest daily increase in infections since the beginning of December last year,” Ramaphosa said. “The average rate of new infections has been steadily coming down over the past few weeks, indicating that we have now passed the peak of the second wave.” The national ban on alcohol has been lifted under certain conditions for on- and off-site consumption and Ramaphosa urged South Africans to drink responsibly so as not to place undue strain on the national healthcare system. The changes to South Africa’s lockdown restrictions effective from today are summarised below. The hours of the national curfew have changed to between 23:00 and 04:00. During this period, every person is confined to their place of residence unless they are performing an essential service or have an emergency. Those who have arrived on a late flight and must travel from the airport during the hours of curfew will be allowed to do so. Closing time for the following establishments, whether indoors or outdoors, is 22:00: An owner or operator of any indoor or outdoor facility where gatherings are held must display the certificate of occupancy which sets out the maximum number of persons the facility may hold. Social gatherings remain prohibited. However, the following is now allowed under the regulations, provided they comply with COVID-19 health protocols: Night clubs remain closed to the public. There are a number of changes to international travel in the new regulations, summarised as follows: The sale of alcohol products is now permitted for on- and off-site consumption, subject to the following restrictions: The regulations state that all South Africans who are able to work from home must do so. However, South Africans will be permitted to travel to and from work subject to the following: <span data-mce-type="bookmark" style="display: inline-block; width: 0px; overflow: hidden; line-height: 0;" class="mce_SELRES_start">﻿</span>