Telkom group executive for regulatory affairs Siyabonga Mahlangu says ICASA’s approach to the upcoming high-demand spectrum audit is problematic. Speaking with the Sunday Times, Mahlangu said ICASA is slicing up the 3.5GHz spectrum “like salami” between all interested parties. He also noted that while an operator requires a block of between 80MHz and 100MHz to deliver a viable 5G solution, there is only going to be 116MHz of this spectrum available across all parties. Mahlangu added that the complex way in which ICASA has structured the auction will likely result in telecommunications companies paying a premium for these resources. Both Telkom and MTN have taken legal action against ICASA for the way it is handling the spectrum auction – which ICASA chairperson Keabetswe Modimoeng has dismissed. “This latest litigation attempt is characteristic of either impatience or a subtle desire to channel the authority’s decision-making outlook. We remain steadfast and will defend the process against these challenges,” said Modimoeng. MyBroadband recently reported on Telkom’s legal challenge against ICASA’s spectrum auction process. The two major complaints of Telkom are: Meanwhile, MTN’s has also legally challenged two of ICASA’s decisions: MTN and Vodacom are the only Tier 1 operators, and this means that they will not be able to participate in a portion of the spectrum auction that includes the highly desirable 3,5000MHz band – which is optimal for 5G use. A curious blunder by ICASA has also resulted in legal challenges from MTN. The applicant tiers are officially structured as follows: However, what is almost certainly an error in ICASA’s wording means that Tier-2 members do not adhere to the definition of their group. ICASA’s ITA defined Tier-1 and Tier-2 operators as follows: However, all of the members of Tier-2 have retail market share below 45% in more than 10 municipalities. ICASA presumably intended the definition for Tier-2 operators to be: This would then include all of the current members of Tier 2. MTN’s legal challenge therefore includes the fact that these definitions are “vague, arbitrary, and unreasonable.”