Vox, an integrated ICT and infrastructure provider and telecommunications company, has chosen Minim’s AI-driven cloud software platform, mobile app, and customer care portal to underpin the Vox Wi-Fi Home Manager, an easy to use mobile app offering full Wi-Fi management, visibility, threat detection and device management. Wi-Fi Home Manager will initially be available to all Vox customers with the MikroTik hAP AC ² router, a popular choice for home WiFi in South Africa, and bundled in with all FTTH sales. “Minim provides a cost-effective solution for smart, secure, easy-to-use Wi-Fi,” said Mike Kuczmierczyk, Senior Product Manager for WiFi at Vox. “Their platform’s existing MikroTik integration enabled us to avoid additional hardware expenses and activate routers already in the field.” “Now, we can offer a mobile app to delight customers— as well as save customer support costs and avoid rolling trucks. It’s an exciting launch.” Minim’s open-source approach to both embedded and cloud-hosted middleware accelerates time to market for both network operators and router manufacturers. The company’s middleware agent securely streams network telemetry to the Minim platform and requires as little as one tenth of the hardware memory and performance as competing solutions. This efficiency-by-design enables Minim to deliver application services on the low-cost hardware needed in emerging markets. The Vox WiFi Home Manager includes three Minim components that use AI to help network operators identify and manage devices, optimise network and secure subscribers: The mobile app, which will carry the Vox brand identity, helps customers: “We are so thrilled to call Vox a customer,” said Minim SVP Sales John D’Amato. “From the moment we began collaborating on Vox Wi-Fi Home Manager, it was clear that they were committed to delivering exceptional value and quality for subscribers.” “Our team is excited about working with them in our ongoing efforts to advance our cloud driven applications.”