The Intergovernmental Fintech Working Group (IFWG) published its position paper on crypto assets earlier this month, promising to bring cryptocurrencies into the South African regulatory purview in a phased and structured manner. In secondary documents published together with the paper, regulators showed that they also wanted to crack down hard on the nascent industry using existing exchange control regulations. These crackdowns seem contrary to earlier statements made by the South African government to create a neutral and facilitative environment for crypto assets. Earlier in June, National Treasury chief director Olaotse Matshane told the National Council of Provinces that South Africa is taking a cautious and facilitative “test and learn” approach to regulating crypto assets. She said that South Africa wanted to allow the activity, but it must be responsible, with the consumer being protected. Shortly after Matshane’s presentation, the South African Reserve Bank (SARB) and IFWG published the position paper on crypto assets, together with an FAQ document. Among the positions announced in the FAQ was that it is illegal to buy cryptocurrency in South Africa from an offshore provider using credit or debit cards. Banks soon banned clients from buying cryptocurrency using your credit card from overseas exchanges like Binance. The IFWG also warned that it is a criminal offence to transfer cryptocurrency from a local exchange provider like Luno, VALR, and AltCoinTrader to an overseas one. It further warned that there are tax and exchange control implications of “staking” crypto assets, though it did not clarify what the implications are. In responses to questions from MyBroadband, the Financial Surveillance Department (FinSurv) at SARB further clarified that any transfer of cryptocurrency out of South Africa is a criminal offence under existing exchange control regulations. This includes transferring assets from your own self-hosted wallet to individuals overseas, or to decentralised exchanges. It should be noted that the position paper is not all threats and crack-downs, and it was generally favourably received by South Africa’s digital asset industry. The paper recommends that crypto asset service providers, or CASPs, be regulated in a phased approach. The IFWG’s Crypto Assets Regulatory Working Group recommended that: Cryptocurrency exchanges and other service providers in the industry said that they would welcome such regulations, as it would provide much-needed certainty to help them do business internationally. If sensible exchange control regulations are implemented, it will attract foreign direct investment to South Africa, and allow the country to compete in a nascent and rapidly expanding technology field. The following table summarises the IFWG position paper, the FAQ document, and the clarifying remarks FinSurv provided to MyBroadband.