Santam has cautioned Cape Town residents to be careful and exercise extreme vigilance in the wake of the severe weather conditions predicted for the city and surrounding areas. “Two successive cold fronts are expected to move in over the Western Cape, starting on Thursday resulting in rainy, odd and windy conditions as the weather system propagates eastwards over the southern parts of the country,” the South African Weather Service (SAWS) said. The first cold front is set to move in over the south-western Cape during Thursday morning causing widespread showers and rain. A secondary cold front will make landfall during Friday causing rainfall and light snowfall to persist over the Western Cape. Cold conditions will start to invade the central parts of the country during Friday with maximum temperatures dropping significantly to the mid-teens. The SAWS has warned that rainfall between 30mm and 40mm can be expected over the Cape Town metropole, Theewaterskloof, and the western parts of the Cape Winelands. The SAWS has issued three Yellow level 2 warnings related to the two cold fronts: “The South African Weather Service will continue to monitor any further developments relating to this weather system and will issue subsequent updates as required,” it said. “Being as prepared as possible, especially as we get ready for further winter rainfall, will help prevent flooding damaging your property,” Santam’s Marius Neethling said. He added that motorist should be vigilant to decrease the risk of a flood-related car accident. Santam has offered the following tips to motorists ahead of the expected heavy rains this week. Last-minute measures homeowners can take if water levels rise include: Santam further advised homeowners to make sure that the electrical points, plugs, and fixed are at least 300mm above expected flood levels. “The slope of your property can direct water into or from your house. Observe where the water accumulates and flows,” it said. “Where possible place drainage grids at the catchment points with better and deeper drainage ports. Ensure that the outflow from the roof gets to the street as quickly as possible.” Those with large, flat gardens that have attenuation problems can install a perforated 110mm pipe. The pipe must be seated into a bed of gravel and this can be buried 350-450 mm below the worst areas. This allows easy absorption and is a very cost-effective method.